I'm sharing five super simple ways you
can generate qualified leads and revenue
from a B2B
[Music]
podcast hey I'm Sam Dunning founder at
breaking B2B and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying my
ultimate B2B podcast Playbook head over
to Breaking bb.com hit the newsletter
Tab and download it
instantly in this episode I'm going to
share five battle tested ways that we
use at breaking B2B ourselves on our own
podcast breaking b2v as well as for
client shows on how you can generate
qualified leads and sales pipeline most
importantly contributing to revenue so
let's dive straight
in okay so strategy one is targeting
dream clients with your B2B podcast this
is like an ABM or an account-based
marketing player
so for example at breaking
bb.com if we're going after B2B web
design SEO or podcasting clients we tend
to work with B2B Tech or service
companies and we tend to head we tend to
go after their heads of marketing maybe
CMO maybe VP marketing maybe demand gen
lead or director or similar so let's say
for example I was going after
gong fast growth SAS company in the cool
recording space for sales calls if I
targeted I went on to LinkedIn if I head
on to their LinkedIn page and if I
search for their CMO Chief marketing
officer I can see that Brian o' Conor is
the CMO so I would send Brian a
painfully short LinkedIn personalized
request that opens up the Curiosity Gap
so literally something super short like
Brian
Dash would love to get you on my top B2B
show against uh convo so Brian Dash
would love to get you on my top B2B show
against a Cony I've not told at all I've
not done the traditional sales Outreach
of 10 paragraphs boring you about how
great our company is or how good our
podcast is something super short
something memorable something that
stands out gets straight to the point
and then goes for a no so you might have
heard of a book by Chris Voss called
Never split the difference he's an ex
FBI hostage negotiator talks about the
power of going for no it's in a bunch of
other sales books and marketing books
basically it's easier for folks to say
no to something so that's why I'm saying
is he against a conversation around it
so we'll see if that pens but I'll put
the if I update my Google
sheet and add Brian Conor company gong
job title
CMO and I'll add
in his LinkedIn profile to my Google
sheet and then we do that for the top
5050 or so or however many dream clients
hit that list so a bunch of those are
going to accept of course there'll be a
few that won't but we go the ones that
do and then from there we want to do a
great show with them so the whole point
of this strategy is to build up
relationships with Target accounts that
fit that dream Client List and
essentially be top of mind if they need
our offer so I have released a full
strategy of how we do this so if you go
to Breaking bb.com hit the newsletter
tab you can download the full podcast
guide and unlock that instantly so
essentially what we want to do is when
we invite them on the show we want to
run a great podcast with them where we
talk about their expertise they share
some actionable tips for our audience
give some insights and more we might
have a bit of band to book for the
recording and just build up
relationships so ask them how businesses
going ask them what the plans are for
the quarter ahead what strategies are
working in similar we'll record the
episode make sure it's a great episode
what I usually like to weave in after we
recorded the show is maybe ask them how
they're handling the problem we fix so
in our case the problem we fix is how
you handling kind of not how you
handling competitors showing above you
on Google search which is an SEO based
question or I might say how are you get
in front of dream clients if you
consider podcasting or something like
that just a subtle ask they might say
we're handling it great already or they
might say oh that's interesting is is
that something you guys do and then you
might be able to book a time in their
calendar um but another thing to
consider is we want to make it enjoyable
experience for them we don't want to
pitch them straight away
so what I like to do is after we've
recorded that great show and we've made
it live I'll send them a podcast
promotional
kit says along the lines of hey your
podcast episodes live here's the links
YouTube Apple Spotify episode page I've
attached some artwork and some
promotional video clips so if you're
able to share them on socials LinkedIn
other social media email list that's
much appreciated let me know if I can
help further so making it super easy for
this guest to share the podcast they're
probably going to think well this
person's gone through the effort of
making some promo video clips and then
we're promoting it like crazy on the
audio podcast on LinkedIn or an email
list and on the YouTube with all the
guest episodes that we've done so the
whole point of this is you're building
up relationships with these Target
clients some of them when you ask them
after recording how are you handling
this issue we fix right now they might
be open to a conversation some won't but
you've pled a seed so you're going to be
top of Mind they've had a great
experience with you during the show
after and for promotional material like
you might tag them in socials every time
you put out a promotional clip or
artwork of the episode and then after a
while you might reach out to them so you
might schedule a message for two months
three months be it yourself as a founder
or one of your sales team and just
inquire how they're getting on you might
add them to email list you'll connect
with them on LinkedIn so they're going
to see your content if you're posting
every few days on the problem you fix or
the offer or how you help So eventually
when they do need your service you're
going to be top of mind because you're
the person that helped them that they
now trust in that space and that's built
taken the time to build up a
relationship so that's a really good way
to break into Target accounts cold
prospects that probably never normally
entertain a cold call or cold email
really good strategy and another way to
use this account-based marketing dream
client podcast strategy is actually to
speed up existing deal Cycles so if your
sales team have got prospects that are
perhaps moving slowly through the sales
process invite them onto your show give
them a
experience has gives you some FaceTime
with them and again can speed up those
deals strategy 2 is interviewing famous
people in your Niche so depending on
what industry or what sector whatever
Niche your organization Falls within
you're probably going to know a few
folks that have got a good following be
it online LinkedIn or similar or perhaps
there's other social channels or even
face to-face events be it networking
shows trade shows Etc these guys hang
out being in digital mine are going to
be on LinkedIn in the B2B space so for
example in digital marketing Neil Patel
is a fairly well-known person in the
digital marketing space so I might want
to invite him on to my show Breaking B2B
reason being that I might want to do
this is because he's famous in the niche
he's got a big following a big audience
behind him so if he comes on the show
that's going to give us some good social
proof can encourage folks to trust us
more because they think oh well they've
got someone famous in the niche on the
space so we might build up the trust
from that angle and also if they are
able to share the podcast after they've
been on the show then that can actually
introduce our podcast to a wide audience
that perhaps had never heard of our show
before so again if you can invite famous
folks onto your show builds up
credibility also means that you can name
drop them in your pitch if you're doing
cold email pitches or if you're doing
LinkedIn invite pitches or other ways
you can say look recent guests include
and then drop their names of two or
three famous folks in the industry just
increases your liking hood of getting
other guests on the show like I say you
can piggyback on their audience to
gather a bigger audience for yourself
and encourage Target clients leads from
folks that already follow
them strategy 3 is running solo episodes
to build thought leadership around your
industry air of expertise
and in your Niche and the reason you
want to consider doing solo episodes is
it builds another layer of trust with
your audience be them listening in to
the audio podcast or perhaps they're
tuning in on YouTube or maybe even
through lives if you go down that rout
so what you want to think about is if
you're constantly interviewing guests
yes it going to be super entertaining
but a lot of the time it's probably
going to be the guest that's speaking so
unless you're giving your point of view
when you're responding to questions or
asking them questions similar there's
only so much that you can kind of get
across your a of expertise so solo
episodes are really good to drill into
specific topics share your knowledge
share your point of view and build
another layer of trust with your
audience on that area of expertise that
you're honing in on so breaking B2 b.com
on this show you'll quite often see me
do solar episodes around podcasting
around B2B SEO and around BB web design
where I'll share battle tested tips that
we've picked up over the years and then
we'll publish them onto the website
we'll publish them onto the audio
podcast onto YouTube and we'll also make
an article out of them but the good
thing about doing solo episode is not
only is it a good chance to drill into a
dedicated topic they are searchable so
if you put a dedicated article page on
your website they can be searchable from
Google they can be found it can be
Evergreen content they can be found not
just now but for months and years to
come to drive traffic and leads but also
they can be chopped up into mini clips
so if you do video episodes they can be
chopped up into micro clips that you can
then publish on socials to get more
audience attracted to your content gain
more views gain more downloads game more
listens but I found them one of the most
effective ways to essentially build
trust with the audience at scale and to
acquire inbound leads so a few ideas
when it comes to actually wondering what
you should talk about on a solo episode
or going down the solo podcast rout I
quite often do episodes on dedicated
topics around common sales called
questions I get how to do something so
in our case how to rank top of Google
how to start a B2B podcast how to build
a website that converts what are those
common questions that you get it could
be cliche questions controversial ones
why is SEO so expensive why is this so
expensive what's a common point of view
that you've got on your industry that
maybe goes against a lot of things that
folks talk about what's a common
objection that you can address that you
get brought up on sales calls what's an
industry Trend so I might talk about
what's going on with a Google algorithm
update what's new in podcasting what's
new in websites there's so many things
you can grab from sales calls customer
service customer success calls calls
that you have with prospects industry
news what's your point of view so much
fuel that you can use for topics or even
point of view on things that guests have
talked about in your podcast use those
leverage them leverage the content to
your advantage so publish it to your
website article page publish it to
YouTube publish it to the audio podcast
chop those clips up for video clips on
LinkedIn so there's a ton repay value
it's all searchable on Google so it can
attract the audience build that extra
layer of trust and then you've got to
include a nice cool to action in there
perhaps at the start perhaps at the end
for someone to head to your website
download a guide maybe to book a call to
discuss further or grab a free demo make
sure you consider that CTA make it crisp
make it clear on that problem you're
going to fix and the action you want
your audience to take that's a great way
to drive
leads the fourth way to attract leads
and drive some Revenue through a B2B
podcast is sponsorships so this is
probably only going to be a roote and a
viable option for you once you've built
up an audience be it on YouTube maybe
through your email list maybe through
the audio podcast or whatever channels
you distribute and upload your podcast
to you're probably going to need an
audience because most sponsors will want
to know that there's a decent amount of
folks within that Target Niche that they
go after actually listening watching or
consuming that content so a few ways
that I've acquired sponsors for breaking
B2B over the years is some have come
inbound so we tend to go after the
companies that like to sponsor breaking
B2B are usually marketing tech companies
so SAS companies that go after marketing
leaders or B2B
Founders that's what we talk about we
talk about btb marketing we invite Tech
marketers Tech Founders so they tend to
go after that audience so some have come
inbound that probably didn't start till
year two or so of the podcast and we're
now four or so years in at the time of
recording and I've also reached out to
some so when podcasts sponsors have been
due for Renewal I'd have head over to
LinkedIn I'd use the search tool and
then I'd search for companies that fit
that idal client profile that go after
our audience then reach out to their
marketing leaders or their demand
generation leaders directors as those
tend to be the folks responsible for the
budget and then again use that strategy
that we talked about earlier with a
Google sheet make a list of them reach
out to them with a painfully short
message it might be a personalized
request that says something like hey
Steve had an unusual idea to build build
your audience and drive inbound leads
against a conversation so again a lot of
this Outreach strategy I use is
painfully short opens that Curiosity Gap
and improves acceptance rates and then
I'll probably send them a loom video
like a custom video via LinkedIn message
directly rather than email them so I can
see that they get it and then just give
them a snapshot of what the sponsorship
entails what value they get out of it
and see if they'd be open to setting up
a zoom something simple something like
that is a great way to outreach but I'd
recommend building up some kind of
audience before you utilize this as a
strategy and then within your podcast
site you can say look we we're accepting
sponsors or you can reach out to
relevant sponsors that fit that profile
of your
audience and then the fifth and final
way to attract leads from your podcast
is to guest on other folks podcast so
there's a great site called chart.com
that's
chart.com that I like to use and a nice
way to do that is you go on chart.com
you head to the Chart section you click
apple apple podcast is actually usually
the most popular choice you can hit
Spotify as well choose the target market
of your listeners so I could choose
Great Britain or America that tends to
be the split up of our listeners then in
my case you can choose the category of
the audience you want to go
after so you got all sorts Arts business
comedy Etc so in my case I go under
business I choose marketing as we tend
to go after marketing leaders and then
what I do is from there you're presented
with the top 100 or so podcasts that fit
within the niche of the target clients
you go after so in my case I'd reach out
to a bunch of hosts that are in the top
listings here in my case of marketing
top charts on chartable so I'd reach out
to folks like Ryan Alford that's running
the rad cast that's currently number one
for us in marketing got Neil Patel at
number two Mike Linton at number three
so I'd reach out to these folks much the
same with that painfully short LinkedIn
message I did that to Ryan Alford
recently and he invited me onto the rad
cast which is about to episode uh soon
at the time of recording this one so
looking forward to that so why are we
doing this well we're trying to get on
other marketing podcasts or not
necessarily marketing whatever fits your
Niche so whatever your industry you're
going after the audience so we can do a
great show on their podcast and then
ramp up our audience so when we're
invited to promote ourselves perhaps at
the end perhaps at the start of that
recording
we can then guide the audience of that
show to check out our podcast we can do
a crisp clear cool to action so I might
say look if you're frustrated of the
same old B2B marketing BS and you want
actionable tips to grow your Revenue
through organic search your website and
podcasting then you could consider
checking out breaking B2B head over to
Breaking bb.com to tune in give it a try
a crisp clear cool to action like that
you do a few great shows you're building
up your audience you're piggybacking on
that podcast audience and then they
might might check out YouTube they might
check out your podcast and eventually if
what you're saying resonates a bunch of
those May inquire directly and I have
even had leads directly from me guesting
on shows so guesting on podcast is
another way to build trust with other
people's audience and I've seen a bunch
of direct inquiries direct booked calls
come off guesting as well so both those
strategies super viable and worth a go
and there we have it I hope you found
this episode and the five battle tested
tips to generate B2B leads from your
podcast of use and to join thousands of
Legends enjoy my ultimate B2B podcast
Playbook head over breaking bb.com hit
the newsletter Tab and you can unlock it
instantly or if you want to discuss
firing up your own B2B show head over to
breaking bb.com and book a cool cheers
for tuning in catch you on the next one